OTEP: Context-scoped Attributes (#4931)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: oteps/4931-context-scoped-attributes.md

life span as the application itself, whereas Context-scoped attributes
lifespan is tied to the Context itself. For example, a Context solely created
for an incoming request will stop existing once such request is done.

In practice, Instrumentation Scope and Context-scoped attributes will
often be completely orthogonal:
When the Context is flows in-process through a single
service, there will often be exactly one span per Tracer (e.g. one span from
the HTTP server instrumentation as the request arrives, and another one from
a HTTP client instrumentation, as a downstream service is called).

## Internal details

This section explains the API and SDK level changes that are expected to support this.

### API changes

The API would be extended with two operations to get and set Context-scoped
attributes:

* **Set Context Attributes**, e.g. `Context SetContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes)`
  or `Context.setAttributes()`.
* **Get Context Attributes**, e.g. `Attributes GetContextScopedAttributes(Context context)` or
  `Context.getAttributes()`.

`Set Context Attributes` takes a set of attributes and returns a new Context that contains

> the specified attributes.

Reviewer: This still leaves the setter semantics ambiguous when the `Context` already contains context-scoped attributes.

In layered middleware, one component may set `tenant.id` and a later component may set `http.app`. From this text, an SDK could reasonably interpret `Set Context Attributes` as either replacing the prior set or merging into it, and both behaviors would satisfy “returns a new Context that contains the specified attributes.”

I think this needs to define merge vs. replace explicitly, and also define duplicate-key precedence when the same key is set multiple times. Otherwise this API can diverge across languages in a pretty fundamental way.

Author: Restored the previous approach was was `Add Attributes()` rather than `Set Attributes()`. I'm also using the previous approach which is replacement: the last `Add Attributes()` call wins.

`Get Context Attributes` returns the context-scoped Attributes, or an empty set if none exists.

### SDK changes

Upon telemetry items creation (e.g. Span, LogRecord), the SDK MUST get
the Context-scoped attributes of the logically associated Context, and
add them to the newly created telemetry item, skipping attributes with
keys already present in the telemetry item. This MUST be done before any

> extension point is invoked, e.g. Sampler or Processor.

Reviewer: This is still underspecified for metrics.

The OTEP says this applies to all signals, and one of the main motivations here is to cover the gap where processors do not solve metrics. But the concrete SDK behavior is only described in “telemetry item creation” terms, with `Span` / `LogRecord` examples and a span-oriented code sample.

For metrics, these attributes affect the effective measurement attribute set, which in turn affects stream identity, view processing, and cardinality limiting. I think the OTEP needs to say when context-scoped attributes are merged for metrics relative to those steps, otherwise SDKs can make different choices here and still plausibly claim compliance.

Author: I have added a _small_ note mentioning these attributes MUST be applied as part of Instrument creation and _before_ views/advisories are applied.

Reviewer: I don’t think the wording added in d822a1e7e7f9dd242b387a0aa06e0f9d8bbc5434 captures the outcome I understood us to have landed on in the last SIG discussion.

My understanding coming out of that conversation, and what I understood Jack to be aligning with as well, was that for metrics this needs to be defined in terms of measurement-time behavior, not instrument-creation time. The text added in d822a1e7e7f9dd242b387a0aa06e0f9d8bbc5434 reads to me like the earlier position you had argued for, which I thought was supposed to be superseded.

That distinction matters because for metrics the important question is not when an instrument is created, but when a measurement is recorded and the effective attribute set for that measurement is formed. That is the attribute set that downstream metric processing operates on. In particular, this affects stream identity, view application, and cardinality limiting. If the OTEP keeps framing this in terms of “telemetry item creation” and “Meter Instrument” creation, I still think different SDKs could make materially different choices here and still plausibly claim compliance.

What I want to see is explicit language that, for metrics, context-scoped attributes are merged with the measurement’s attribute set at record/emit time, and that this happens before any downstream processing that depends on the final attribute set, including views/advisories and cardinality-related processing.

Without that, I still don’t think the metrics behavior is specified clearly enough.

Author: Hey @MrAlias ! What you saw is the previous approach (prior to the discussion with you and Jack). I have now updated this adding a new small paragraph. Let me know if this is something you envisioned or think it needs more nurturing.

Context-scoped attributes should be thought of equivalent to adding the attribute
directly to each single telemetry item it applies to. These attributes will then be
automatically available to **any** component down the pipeline, e.g.
to samplers and processors.

Context-scoped attributes MUST NOT be propagated cross-service, i.e. no context propagator
must be implemented for them. This is because they are meant to annotate (a subset of)
the telemetry items related of a single service (see also [the next section](#comp-baggage)).

Instrumentation libraries desiring to set Context-scoped attributes MUST offer this as an opt-in
behavior, which will be disabled by default (i.e. libraries will not set Context-scoped attributes).
Comprehensive documentation on the used attributes SHOULD be provided to end users.
This SHOULD include details on whether these attributes have high or low cardinality values.

SDKs MUST disable Context-scoped attributes support by default, in order to reduce the possibility
of unexpected side effects, as well as any performance hit due to additional allocations. The user
MUST explicitly enable this functionality on a per-signal basis:

```yaml

> disabled: false

Reviewer 2: disabled: false -> This has nothing to do with context-attributes right?

Reviewer 2: I think its best to remove this line to avoid any confusion.

Author: Yeah, unrelated, and yes, probably better to remove it to avoid confusion.

* Both apply a set of telemetry attributes to a set of telemetry items
  (those in their "scope").

While Instrumentation Scope attributes apply to all items emitted by the same
Tracer, Meter or LogEmitter (i.e., typically the same telemetry-implementing unit
of code), the scope of Context-scoped attributes is determined at runtime by the
Context, independently of the used Tracer, Meter or LogEmitter.

Moreover, Tracer, Meter and Logger instances typically have the same
life span as the application itself, whereas Context-scoped attributes
lifespan is tied to the Context itself. For example, a Context solely created
for an incoming request will stop existing once such request is done.

In practice, Instrumentation Scope and Context-scoped attributes will
often be completely orthogonal:
When the Context is flows in-process through a single
service, there will often be exactly one span per Tracer (e.g. one span from
the HTTP server instrumentation as the request arrives, and another one from
a HTTP client instrumentation, as a downstream service is called).

## Internal details

This section explains the API and SDK level changes that are expected to support this.

### API changes

> The API would be extended with two operations to get and set Context-scoped

Reviewer 3: Is the intent for this API to be used at any arbitrary point during request handling?

Author: Yes, although the recommended usage is at ingress/root level operations, e.g. right at the start of a received request or new operation.

attributes:

* **Add Context Attributes**, e.g. `Context AddContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes)`
  or `Context.addAttributes()`.
* **Get Context Attributes**, e.g. `Attributes GetContextScopedAttributes(Context context)` or
  `Context.getAttributes()`.

> `Add Context Attributes` adds a set of attributes to the specified Context. These attributes

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to link or get into attribute naming restrictions/mindfulness here? For example:

* [This part](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/27735ccca3746d7bb7fa061dfb73d93bcbae2b6e/docs/general/naming.md#otel-namespace) says that `otel.*` attributes must be semconv-approved.
* [This says](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/27735ccca3746d7bb7fa061dfb73d93bcbae2b6e/docs/general/naming.md#recommendations-for-application-developers) “If an appropriate name does not exists you will need to come up with a new name” regarding attributes, metrics, events, etc by application developers. Just make sure to namespace as much as possible and be mindful of internal vs company usage.

Author: Both instrumentation libraries AND end users will end up using this. However, once this OTEP is accepted, the Specification updates will mention the expected behavior/output of instrumentation libraries (semconv approved is one of them).

IMHO the second one is something users should _already_ know, e.g. nowadays attributes Spans can already "collision" with attributes set by some instrumentation library. This is not different.

## Motivation

This OTEP aims to address various related demands that have been brought up
in the past, where the scope (and lifetime) of resource attributes is too broad,
but the scope of span attributes is too narrow. For example, this happens where there is a
mismatch between the OpenTelemetry SDK’s (and thus TracerProvider’s, MeterProvider’s, LoggerProvider's)
process-wide initialization and the semantic scope of a (sub)service.

A typical use case is supporting multi tenancy, with tenant information existing
in the request itself (e.g. header key, acess token, request parameter). This tenant information
could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing
of the request would then be automatically associated with the respective request/tenant.
Other alternatives would be problematic:

* Having an SDK instance per tenant (in order to report tenant-specific information) can be prohibitive
  as there could be hundreds or thousands of different tenants, and the processing/exporting pipeline
  would be duplicated N-times.
* Custom processors for attaching tenant-specific information would work for spans and logs. However,

>   at the time of writing this OTEP there is no specified processor functionality for metrics.

Reviewer 2: > at the time of writing this OTEP there is no specified processor functionality for metrics.

This seems like a weak argument right?. Spec could be adding processor concept. Or Views could be modified to support pulling attributes from context. (Such capability existed in Metrics Views originally, but was removed for scope control)

Author: Yes and no - the [related effort](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4318) and discussion took a whole year and it wasn't accepted/merged. I don't know about the Views path but it could take long time before it's actually discussed/accepted (not to mention stabilized).

Reviewer 4: It does seem like the large argument here over automatic inclusion of metrics merits we take a look at it. IIRC - the original context-scoped attributes failed because of scope creep, so I understand wanting to keep this narrow.  Maybe we can just focus the discussion on "What's the right mechanism for context scoped attributes to interact with metrics" - and be a little flexible in thinking for that one.

* In general, OpenTelemetry should offer out-of-the-box common functionality that is extensively

>   used, instead of asking users to write custom components recurringly.

Reviewer 2: I am not so sure of this argument. OTel could add top-level SpanProcessor and LogRecord processor that can be added by the user, if they wish to get the Context-scope attributes to spans or logs. I am yet to see a strong argument that these attribute should be added by default.

Author: This is mentioned in the alternatives, i.e.

> * Samplers have their `ShouldSample` operation invoked _before_ a processor
  can get their `OnStart` call. Thus we would need to add a `BeforeShouldSample` or `BeforeStart`
  operations to the processor interface, which seems redundant.
> * Processors would need to be configured per-signal, which is both redundant but could also
  offer more granularity.

Reviewer 2: Sampler's have access to Context, so they can very well check the context scoped attributes themselves.

Reviewer 4: @cijothomas Programmatic requirements for interacting basically negates the feature for a large portion of users - those leveraging auto-instrumentation capabilities and trying for pure config-driven approaches.  E.g. in SRE/Ops personas who are managing an opentelemetry solution on kuberenetes that may not have access to all the developers code.  Additionally, you may be adding flags/features for context-scope attributes as a framework but you don't own the SDK (you're not the application), so you cannot *enforce* those processors are configured correctly and it becomes huge friction for making the thing work.

I think we need to find a way to have context-scoped attributes work *by default*, otherwise we may just be wasting cycles working on something that's too hard to be adopted.

Reviewer 2: Fully agree that the opt-in should be super easy else this will cause adotption to struggle.

If the spec ships a named built-in processor for this, the operators can enable it right? Would this not work for Logs/Spans which already has a concept of Processor that can read-attributes-from-context and put them inside Logs/Spans.

```yaml
tracer_provider:
  processors:
    - context_scoped_attributes: {}. -> this is what will inject context attributes to Spans. (Similar to logs)
    - batch: ...
```

Metrics - Either we need to bring measurement processor, or augment views to have the ability to enrich with attributes from context. (We had this originally, got removed for 1.0, but I guess now is the perfect time to bring it back)

This will keep _zero overhead_ for users who don't opt in, and still allows operators to enable this feature easily (and pay a perf cost, but they can make the decision if attributes give them more value than the perf cost)

function app hosts multiple co-deployed functions with different names and IDs.
In PR [open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification#2502](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2502),
this was solved by allowing to set these Resource attributes on the FaaS
root span instead. This has the drawback that the context of which function a span
is executed in is lost in any child spans that may occur within the function (app).

## Explanation

The Context-scoped attributes allows you to attach attributes to all telemetry
signals emitted within a Context. Context-scoped attributes are standard
attributes, which means you can use strings, integers, floating point numbers,
booleans, arrays, or complex types, just like for any telemetry item.

When Context-scoped attributes are enabled, they MUST be added to telemetry items
that were **emitted** while the Context containing the Context-scoped attributes
was active, or to telemetry items that had this Context explicitly set as parent.

These attributes will then be automatically available to **any** component down the pipeline, i.e.
to samplers and processors. Like other telemetry APIs, Context-scoped attributes are

> write-only for applications. You cannot query the currently set Context-scoped attributes,

Reviewer 2: This section need to be updated to reflect the wording later in the doc "The API would be extended with two operations to get and set Context-scoped
attributes:"

as they are only available on the SDK level (to samplers and processors).

Context-scoped attributes should be thought of equivalent to adding the attribute
directly to each single telemetry item it applies to.

Context-scoped attributes MUST NOT be propagated cross-service, i.e. no context propagator
must be implemented for them. This is because they are meant to annotate (a subset of)
the telemetry items related of a single service (see also [the next section](#comp-baggage)).

> Instrumentation libraries SHOULD NOT set Context-scoped attributes. Only end users are

Reviewer 5: Why is the restriction for only end users? There is a use case apart from end users. In [agent.name](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/issues/3602) and [workflow.name](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/issues/3603) propagation cases, we were considering context scoped attributes. The genAI's TelemetryHandler (instrumentation library code) has to set `gen_ai.workflow.name` and `gen_ai.agent.name` for propagation
to child spans.
cc @lmolkova

Reviewer 5: See prototype, workflow name added to context-scope attributes https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/pull/4446

Reviewer 4: +1 - I can see instrumentation libraries setting them *but* having that capability be flag-guarded or config-guarded in some way.

Reviewer 5: Adding one more example as a use case, `conversation.id` or other `associated attributes` passed to the instrumentation by the user. Instrumentation is setting these as context scoped attributes https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/pull/4468

> Instrumentation libraries SHOULD NOT set Context-scoped attributes. Only end users are

Reviewer 2: what is the reason to prevent instrumentation libraries from doing it?

Reviewer 6: I view this feature as a way to let the end user bypass instrumentation and communicate directly with the SDK. While instrumentation could also use this API for ergonomic reasons, they don't need it. It prevents instrumentation libraries from needing to add API surface to let users tell them what attributes to pass.  E.g.  `WithAttributesFromRequest(func (req http.Request) []attribute.KeyValue)`.

By using the OTel APIs directly, instrumentation can pass the same attributes with better performance, and can use Enabled to avoid doing constructing attributes when signals are disabled. Unless we have concrete use-cases that outweigh those drawbacks, I would prefer to start by discouraging use of this API by instrumentation.

expected to use this feature. Explicit documentation and guidance MUST be provided
to make sure authors understand this. See [Future possibilities](#future-possibilities).

> Context-scoped attributes default values, i.e. they will be added to

Reviewer 7: This sentence appears to have a typo. Not exactly sure what it intends to say tho.

Author: Updated.

to the internal key for getting the context-scoped attributes from `Context`. There are some issues
with this approach though:

* Samplers have their `ShouldSample` operation invoked _before_ a processor
  can get their `OnStart` call. Thus we would need to add a `BeforeShouldSample` or `BeforeStart`
  operations to the processor interface, which seems redundant.
* Processors would need to be configured per-signal, which is both redundant but could also
  offer more granularity.

## Open questions

* Should `Baggage` be included as part of this new process? The need to attach
  `Baggage` values to individual telemetry items has been a request from users
  in the past. This is even considered as part of one of the alternatives that
  were considered.
* Configuration could be defined, at least initially, as a single boolean setting for EACH
  signal, similar to how the entire SDK is enabled or disabled via the `disabled` configuration
  option, e.g. enable this for traces and logs but disable it for metrics.
  However, this OTEP leaves the topic open in case further options are needed, e.g. white or

>   black list specific attributes on a per-signal basis.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  However, this OTEP leaves the topic open in case further options are needed, e.g. allow list or
  deny list specific attributes on a per-signal basis.
```

# Context-scoped attributes

Add Context-scoped telemetry attributes which typically apply to all signals
associated with a request as it crosses a single service.

Original author: [Christian Neumüller](https://github.com/Oberon00).

## Motivation

This OTEP aims to address various related demands that have been brought up
in the past, where the scope (and lifetime) of resource attributes is too broad,
but the scope of span attributes is too narrow. For example, this happens where there is a
mismatch between the OpenTelemetry SDK’s (and thus TracerProvider’s, MeterProvider’s, LoggerProvider's)
process-wide initialization and the semantic scope of a (sub)service.

A typical use case is supporting multi tenancy, with tenant information existing
in the request itself (e.g. header key, access token, request parameter). This tenant information

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
could be then propagated in-proc via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing
```

> of the request would then be automatically associated with the respective request/tenant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the request could be automatically associated with the respective request/tenant.
```

The current wording else contradicts the opt-in behavior from later section.

makes a call to another service `authservice`, that attribute does *not* apply
to the remote child spans.

A similar problem occurs with `faas.name` and `cloud.resource_id`
([Function as a Service Resource semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/resource/faas/))
on Azure Functions. While both are defined as Resource attributes, an Azure
function app hosts multiple co-deployed functions with different names and IDs.
In PR [open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification#2502](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2502),
this was solved by allowing to set these Resource attributes on the FaaS
root span instead. This has the drawback that the context of which function a span
is executed in is lost in any child spans that may occur within the function (app).

## Explanation

The Context-scoped attributes allows you to attach attributes to all telemetry
signals emitted within a Context. Context-scoped attributes are standard
attributes, which means you can use strings, integers, floating point numbers,
booleans, arrays, or complex types, just like for any telemetry item.

> When Context-scoped attributes are enabled, they MUST be added to telemetry items

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Context-scoped attributes MUST be added to telemetry items of signals for which the feature is enabled, when those items are emitted while the Context containing the Context-scoped attributes is active, or when that Context is explicitly set as their parent.
```

This is more aligned with the per-signal config switch.

that were **emitted** while the Context containing the Context-scoped attributes
was active, or to telemetry items that had this Context explicitly set as parent.

Context-scoped attributes should be thought of equivalent to adding the attribute
directly to each single telemetry item it applies to. These attributes will then be
automatically available to **any** component down the pipeline, e.g.
to samplers and processors.

Context-scoped attributes MUST NOT be propagated cross-service, i.e. no context propagator
must be implemented for them. This is because they are meant to annotate (a subset of)
the telemetry items related of a single service (see also [the next section](#comp-baggage)).

> Instrumentation libraries desiring to set Context-scoped attributes MUST offer this as an opt-in

Reviewer: This leaves the policy for instrumentation-library use ambiguous. This section says instrumentation libraries may set Context-scoped attributes when the behavior is opt-in and documented, but the Future possibilities section later says instrumentation libraries should not use this feature.

I think the OTEP should make one consistent directional statement here. If the intended policy is "instrumentation libraries may use this, but only behind explicit opt-in and with documented attributes/cardinality," then the later section should be updated to say that rather than saying they should not use it.

Author: So the outcome (adjusted in both places) is that of the most recent conversations: libraries should set Context-scoped attributes as an opt-in only, BUT we want to discuss whether we want to allow libraries (e.g. genai ones) to use this feature by default.

Hence, proper discussion needs to happen on that front, and we will come with a decision as part of incorporating this OTEP into the Specification (including what conditions such libraries should meet, if we allow that).

> behavior, which will be disabled by default (i.e. libraries will not set Context-scoped attributes).

Reviewer 2: nit: disabled-by-default is already implicit as we said it is "opt-in", so this is redundant.

  context_scoped_attributes: true
logger_provider:
  context_scoped_attributes: true
```

See [Open questions](#open-questions) on details on details regarding the implementation.

<a name="comp-baggage"></a>

### Comparing Context-scoped attributes to Baggage

Context-scoped attributes and
[baggage](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/baggage/api.md)
have two major commonalities:

* Both are "bags of attributes"
* Both are propagated identically in-process (Baggage also lives on the Context).

However, the use cases are very different: Baggage is meant to transport app-level
data along the path of execution, while Context-scoped attributes are annotations
for telemetry in the same execution path.

This also explains the functional & API differences:

* Most important point: Baggage is meant to be propagated across services;
  in fact, this is the main use case of baggage. While a propagator for
  Context-scoped attributes would be implementable, it would break the intended
  meaning by extending the scope of attributes to called services and would also
  raise many security concerns.
* Baggage only supports string values.

> * **Related** Baggage (implicitly or explicitly linked to telemetry items) MAY not be available

Reviewer 2: the "available to exporters" part is equally true for Baggage and COntextScope attributes. ContextScope attributes must be copied to telemetry item so it can be seen in exporter. This is the same for baggage too. Only difference is, there is no built-in way for Baggage to be copied, but this OTEP proposes a built-in way for context attributes to be copied.

I think it's better to remove this line. Removing it won't diminish the OTEP's value.

Author: Done

  to telemetry exporters (although e.g., a SpanProcessor could be used to change that),
  while that's the whole purpose of Context-scoped attributes.

### Comparing Context-scoped attributes to Instrumentation Scope Attributes

Context-scoped attributes and
[Instrumentation Scope attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/pull/201)
have these commonalities:

* Both have "scope" in the name.
* Both apply a set of telemetry attributes to a set of telemetry items
  (those in their "scope").

While Instrumentation Scope attributes apply to all items emitted by the same
Tracer, Meter or LogEmitter (i.e., typically the same telemetry-implementing unit
of code), the scope of Context-scoped attributes is determined at runtime by the
Context, independently of the used Tracer, Meter or LogEmitter.

Moreover, Tracer, Meter and Logger instances typically have the same
life span as the application itself, whereas Context-scoped attributes
lifespan is tied to the Context itself. For example, a Context solely created
for an incoming request will stop existing once such request is done.

> In practice, Instrumentation Scope and Context-scoped attributes will

Reviewer 2: Instrumentation Scope attributes are fixed at Tracer/Meter/Logger creation and remain the same for the lifetime of them. Context-scoped attributes are per-Context and therefore vary per request (or other unit of work) — the same Tracer can emit items with different context-scoped attributes depending on which Context is active, which retaining the same scope attributes.

^Could this/similar wording be included to make the distinction more clearer.

the HTTP server instrumentation as the request arrives, and another one from
a HTTP client instrumentation, as a downstream service is called).

## Internal details

This section explains the API and SDK level changes that are expected to support this.

### API changes

The API would be extended with two operations to get and set Context-scoped
attributes:

* **Add Context Attributes**, e.g. `Context AddContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes)`
  or `Context.addAttributes()`.
* **Get Context Attributes**, e.g. `Attributes GetContextScopedAttributes(Context context)` or
  `Context.getAttributes()`.

`Add Context Attributes` adds a set of attributes to the specified Context. These attributes
are added to previously set Context-scoped attributes, overriding entries with the same name.
A new Context object is returned, contained the updated value set.

`Get Context Attributes` returns the Context-scoped Attributes, or an empty set if none exists.

### SDK changes

Upon Span and LogRecord instances creation, the SDK MUST get
the Context-scoped attributes of the logically associated Context, and

> add them to the newly created telemetry item, skipping attributes with

Reviewer 2: its kinda implied here, but I'd suggest to be explicit that Context-Scope attributes are lower in priority than the ones provided in telemetry item, and can be overridden. 
Maybe a good comment for the spec PR but sharing here too!

Author: Applied

keys already present in the telemetry item. This MUST be done before any
extension point is invoked, e.g. Sampler or Processor.

For metrics, the SDK MUST get the Context-scoped attributes of the logical
associated Context, and attach them upon measurements being recorded (rather
than doing this when instruments are created), in order to have access to the
actual attribute set being used. This MUST be done before any downstream processing
happens, e.g. views, advisoriess or cardinality limits. The
[measurement processing](../specification/metrics/sdk.md#measurement-processing)
section of the Metrics SDK will be updated to clearly reflect details on this step.

This will be an implementation-level change without any changes in the API-surface
of the SDK (i.e. it is not necessary to make Context-scoped attributes distinguishable
from “direct” telemetry attributes).

The snippet below shows what the expected behavior looks like:

```java
public Span startSpan(...) {
  // Implicit (currently active) or explicit parent.
  Context context = getParentContext();

  // Attributes specified by the user upon creation time.

>   Attributes initialAttributes = getInitialAttributes();

Reviewer 2: such a notion of providing attributes at initial vs later only exists for Span, not LogRecords right?

Author: Sure, but this is a spans example :D

  // Merge the Context attributes, which have lesser priority
  // than the attributes explicitly specified at telemetry item
  // creation.
  getContextScopedAttributes(context).forEach((key, value) -> {
    if (!initialAttributes.containsKey(key)) {
      initialAttributes.put(key, value);
    }
  });

  // Pass the updated attributes to the sampling layer.

>   SamplingDecision samplingDecision = sampler.ShouldSample(

Reviewer 8: non blocking (can be addressed later in the spec): it would be more efficient if samplers that care about attributes would access context-scoped attributes

Author: Will resolve this as a comment as it's non blocking, but could you elaborate? Can get my brain on the right path ;)

      context,
      initialAttributes, ...);

  return new Span(initialAttributes, ...);
}
```

> ## Trade-offs and mitigations

Reviewer: I don't think the proposal has no trade-offs at this point. The discussion has identified real trade-offs around metric hot-path overhead, cardinality/resource-exhaustion risk, instrumentation-library misuse, and cross-service propagation/security.

For an OTEP, those don't need final spec mechanics, but they should be captured here along with the chosen mitigations: disabled by default, explicit per-signal opt-in, documented instrumentation-library attributes, and no cross-service propagation. Otherwise the later spec PR may end up relitigating design constraints that this OTEP is already relying on.

Author: I added a pair of them (impact of this feature on allocations and metrics cardinality, and the other one regarding whether libraries can use this). IMHO they are the most important ones, giving the discussion we had during the discussion of this OTEP, but happy to add anything else that is deemed important.

on Azure Functions. While both are defined as Resource attributes, an Azure
function app hosts multiple co-deployed functions with different names and IDs.
In PR [open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification#2502](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2502),
this was solved by allowing to set these Resource attributes on the FaaS
root span instead. This has the drawback that the context of which function a span
is executed in is lost in any child spans that may occur within the function (app).

## Explanation

The Context-scoped attributes allows you to attach attributes to all telemetry
signals emitted within a Context. Context-scoped attributes are standard
attributes, which means you can use strings, integers, floating point numbers,
booleans, arrays, or complex types, just like for any telemetry item.

Context-scoped attributes MUST be added to telemetry items of signals for which the
feature is enabled, when those items are emitted while the Context containing the
Context-scoped attributes is active, or when that Context is explicitly set as their parent.
that were **emitted** while the Context containing the Context-scoped attributes

> was active, or to telemetry items that had this Context explicitly set as parent.

Reviewer: This reads as two overlapping requirements, and the second sentence fragment starts mid-thought. Since this is the core applicability rule, leaving the duplication here makes the OTEP harder to read and risks confusing the per-signal opt-in semantics.

I think this should collapse to a single sentence:

```suggestion
Context-scoped attributes MUST be added to telemetry items of signals for which the
feature is enabled, when those items are emitted while the Context containing the
Context-scoped attributes is active, or when that Context is explicitly set as their parent.
```

Context-scoped attributes should be thought of equivalent to adding the attribute
directly to each single telemetry item it applies to. These attributes will then be
automatically available to **any** component down the pipeline, e.g.
to samplers and processors.

Context-scoped attributes MUST NOT be propagated cross-service, i.e. no context propagator
must be implemented for them. This is because they are meant to annotate (a subset of)
the telemetry items related of a single service (see also [the next section](#comp-baggage)).

> SDKs MUST offer Context-scoped attributes as per-signal opt-in feature.

Reviewer: This says SDKs must offer this as a per-signal opt-in feature, but the example only shows `tracer_provider` and `logger_provider`. Since metrics are a primary motivation and the SDK section below defines metric behavior, readers may infer that there is no `meter_provider` opt-in or that metrics are intentionally excluded from this configuration shape.

I think the example should either include `meter_provider: context_scoped_attributes: true` or explicitly label the snippet as enabling only traces and logs.

Author: Added a pair of lines to showcase this.

The API would be extended with two operations to get and set Context-scoped
attributes:

* **Add Context Attributes**, e.g. `Context AddContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes)`
  or `Context.addAttributes()`.
* **Get Context Attributes**, e.g. `Attributes GetContextScopedAttributes(Context context)` or
  `Context.getAttributes()`.

`Add Context Attributes` adds a set of attributes to the specified Context. These attributes
are added to previously set Context-scoped attributes, overriding entries with the same name.
A new Context object is returned, contained the updated value set.

`Get Context Attributes` returns the Context-scoped Attributes, or an empty set if none exists.

### SDK changes

Upon Span and LogRecord instances creation, the SDK MUST get
the Context-scoped attributes of the logically associated Context, and
add them to the newly created telemetry item, skipping attributes with
keys already present in the telemetry items (as Context-scoped attributes have
lower priority). This MUST be done before any extension point is invoked,
e.g. Sampler or Processor. For Span instances, these attributes can later be
overriden manually by the user.

> For metrics, the SDK MUST get the Context-scoped attributes of the logical

Reviewer: This still leaves asynchronous metric measurements undefined. The Metrics API distinguishes synchronous measurements, which can be associated with `Context`, from asynchronous measurements, which cannot; this paragraph says “For metrics” broadly and requires reading the logically associated Context at measurement record time.

In observable instrument callbacks, SDKs could reasonably choose no attributes, collection-time context, or registration-time context, and each choice could appear compatible with this wording. I think the OTEP should either scope this requirement to synchronous measurements or explicitly state that asynchronous measurements are excluded until a context association exists.

Author: Updated to explicitly leave out asynchronous metrics. This can be added later on if/as needed.

# Context-scoped attributes

Add Context-scoped telemetry attributes which typically apply to all signals

> associated with a trace as it crosses a single service.

Reviewer 2: do we need to mention "trace" here?

## Motivation

This OTEP aims to address various related demands that have been brought up
in the past, where the scope of resource attributes is too broad, but the scope
of span attributes is too narrow. For example, this happens where there is a
mismatch between the OpenTelemetry SDK’s (and thus TracerProvider’s, MeterProvider’s)
process-wide initialization and the semantic scope of a (sub)service.

A concrete example is posed in the issue
[open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification#335](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues/335)
“Consider adding a resource (semantic convention) to distinguish
HTTP applications (http.app attribute)”. If the opentelemetry-java agent
is injected in a JVM running a classical Java Application Server (such as tomcat),
there will be a single resource for the whole JVM. The application server can
host multiple independent applications. There is currently no way to distinguish
between these, other than with the generic HTTP attributes like
`http.route` or `url.template`. The mentioned issue proposes to add an
`http.app` attribute but it is unclear where this could be placed.

> The resource cannot be used, since there is only one that is shared between

Reviewer 4: We have a separate OTEP for that which was submitted - the ability to have multiple meter/tracer/logger providers.  That has big limitations in terms of cardinality you need to watch out for. I think this limitation here is a good one, even in context of that other OTEP.

as they are only available on the SDK level (to samplers, processors and exporters).

Context-scoped attributes should be thought of equivalent to adding the attribute
directly to each single telemetry item it applies to.

Context-scoped attributes MUST NOT be propagated cross-service, i.e. no context propagator
must be implemented for them. This is because they are meant to annotate (a subset of)
the spans of a single service (see also [the next section](#comp-baggage)).

Context-scoped attributes MUST be disabled by default. They MUST be offered as an opt-in
in order to reduce the possibility of unexpected behavior for existing users.

<a name="comp-baggage"></a>

### Comparing Context-scoped attributes to Baggage

Context-scoped attributes and
[baggage](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/baggage/api.md)
have two major commonalities:

* Both are "bags of attributes"
* Both are propagated identically in-process (Baggage also lives on the Context).

However, the use cases are very different: Baggage is meant to transport app-level
data along the path of execution, while Context-scoped attributes are annotations

> for telemetry in the same execution path.

Reviewer 4: I would still *love* some kind of configuration or capability (can be outside the scope of this OTEP) where I can say "these baggage attributes should automatically promote to be context-scoped as well".

I *do* believe we should NOT add bagggage to all signals "by default" but force users to opt-in to things they wish to trust.  This is more a 'secure by design' philosophy of requiring users to opt-in to things from "untrusted" (i.e. not within the app) sources.

This also explains the functional & API differences:

* Most important point: Baggage is meant to be propagated across services;
  in fact, this is the main use case of baggage. While a propagator for
  Context-scoped attributes would be implementable, it would break the intended
  meaning by extending the scope of attributes to called services and would also
  raise many security concerns.
* Baggage is both readable and writable for the application, while Context-scoped
  attributes, like all other telemetry attributes, are write-only.
* Baggage only supports string values.

> * Baggage is not available to telemetry exporters (although e.g., a SpanProcessor

Author: Good call, made a clarification.

  could be used to change that), while that's the whole purpose of Context-scoped
  attributes.

### Comparing Context-scoped attributes to Instrumentation Scope Attributes

Context-scoped attributes and
[Instrumentation Scope attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/pull/201)
have these commonalities:

* Both have "scope" in the name.
* Both apply a set of telemetry attributes to a set of telemetry items
  (those in their "scope").

> While Instrumentation Scope attributes apply to all items emitted by the same

Reviewer 2: I think a good way to describe this is - they differ in lifetime. Tracer/Meter etc. typically lives same time as the application itself. But context-scoped ties its lifetime to the context itself, so if the context is per-request, then it lives only that long. But if the context is app-start, then it lives entire application.

Reviewer 2: looks good.

* If an associated telemetry item (e.g. Span) already has an attribute with
  a name that is also in the Context-scoped attributes, the telemetry attribute
  MUST take precedence.

Since the typical use case for this function is expected to be just before a local
root span for the trace is created, no particular care needs to be taken to
optimize merging of attributes from calls to this function on a Context that
already has Context-scoped attributes.

As for all APIs, care should be taken to expose it in a way that API-users do
not bind themselves to a particular SDK implementation, such as the OpenTelemetry
default SDK (for example, by going through a `GlobalOpenTelemetry.GetInstance()`
or `GlobalOpenTelemetry.GetInstance().GetContextAttributeWriter()` singleton
that returns an interface implementation). As this is a write-only API,
the API-only implementation should do nothing at all.

### SDK changes

The SDK-implementation could look like this:

```C#
Context AddContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes) {
    return context.WithValue(
        _CTX_KEY_SCOPED_ATTRS,
        MergeAttributes(context.GetValue(_CTX_KEY_SCOPED_ATTRS), attributes));
}
```

> The Context-scoped attributes must be available for all telemetry items they

Reviewer 2: we need to specify something about how it gets added to log/span/metrics. This OTEP says opt-in, but does not say anything specific beyond that. Is that intentionally left out in OTEP

are logically associated with. For example, the `ReadableSpan` should include

> the context attributes in the list of Span attributes, and they must be included

Reviewer 2: This section feels a bit odd - we directly jump into the state where Span attributes already contain Context attributes, without specifying who/how that happened.

Author: Removed this paragraph and simplified the previous one - it may be too short but it's now more explicit.

# Context-scoped attributes

Add Context-scoped telemetry attributes which typically apply to all signals
associated with a request as it crosses a single service.

Original author: [Christian Neumüller](https://github.com/Oberon00).

## Motivation

This OTEP aims to address various related demands that have been brought up
in the past, where the scope (and lifetime) of resource attributes is too broad,
but the scope of span attributes is too narrow. For example, this happens where there is a
mismatch between the OpenTelemetry SDK’s (and thus TracerProvider’s, MeterProvider’s, LoggerProvider's)
process-wide initialization and the semantic scope of a (sub)service.

A typical use case is supporting multi tenancy, with tenant information existing
in the request itself (e.g. header key, acess token, request parameter). This tenant information

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 9: > But users often want to grab something from a header, or put an ID or something associated with the request. I think a lot of users will dump everything from baggage as attributes into the context.

Do you think users would think twice before adding unnecessary attributes if we make it explicit in this method’s documentation that these attributes will be propagated to all downstream signals and that cardinality should be taken into account?

Do you think it would be the user’s responsibility to use the API correctly once the documentation is clear?

If there is a future signal with a similar cardinality concern to metrics, what should we do with it? Do we exclude it by default, as we do for metrics?

---

I also think the semantic model should remain simple and future-proof: *if an attribute is attached to the active Context, it applies to telemetry produced in that Context*. This principle should remain unchanged, even if new signals are added in the future.

If we disable metrics by default, the model becomes: *if an attribute is attached to the active Context, it applies to telemetry produced in that Context, except for metrics*. That semantic meaning would then need to be revised again if a future signal with similar cardinality concerns is added: *if an attribute is attached to the active Context, it applies to telemetry produced in that Context, except for metrics and that newly added signal*.

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 9: @dashpole 

> If we only support contextual attributes on all signals at once, then people just won't be able to use it for things that are high-cardinality.

I am not against disabling some signals when adding attributes to the context. I support offering the option to disable signals.

The semantic model I mentioned is just a way to think about the default behavior.

> Are you OK with users being able to mark some attributes as "high cardinality" or "not for metrics" when adding them to the context?

Yes

> Are you just opposed to making that the default behavior?

Yes

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 6: Sounds good. I'm OK with the default being to add it to all signals.

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 2: > Sounds good. I'm OK with the default being to add it to all signals.

This seems quite risky to me. Metrics is designed for high-performance and by changing the default behavior to pull in attributes from Context, the performance will be significantly affected. (.NET and Rust implementation relies on incoming read-only-slice, and if we need to add attributes from context by default, then it forces constructing a new read-only-slice and copying incoming one to that, This will kill the performance and also trigger heap allocation likely).

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 4: @cijothomas Theoretically this was *always* something you needed to do in metrics, because we prepared to attach baggage labels in the initial implementation.  You also need context for trace-id in exemplars.

I hear the concern, but I think we need to find clever ways to solve this - e.g. creating an attributes data structure that optmises to avoid allocations but may not be elegant to interact with.  I thoroughly believe we need to find a way to deal with this limitation over time.

> could be then propagated via Context-scoped attributes. **Any** telemetry produced during the processing

Reviewer 6: @cijothomas Lets separate a few concerns:

* Users will put attributes in context that have unbounded cardinality, and blow up their memory usage.
* The SDK will need to check for attributes in the context on each call, which has a performance cost.

I've been mostly concerned in this thread about whether users will make the right choice about which signals to opt an attribute into.

> if we need to add attributes from context by default, then it forces constructing a new read-only-slice and copying incoming one to that, This will kill the performance and also trigger heap allocation likely).

I don't see a way around this. If a user wants to dynamically get attributes from context and attach them to metrics, then they will have to pay this cost.  In Go, we would probably use pooling to try to mitigate this.

Note that the "default" behavior is still performant regardless, since users need to explicitly opt-in to use contextual attributes in their application.  I think the question of defaults mostly is about ergonomics and expectations vs protecting users from themselves.  Once a user has decided they _want_ an attribute attached to metrics, they assume the risks and performance costs associated with it.

all the spans have a respective `http.app` associated with it. When the `my-teams-tomcat` service
makes a call to another service `authservice`, that attribute does *not* apply
to the remote child spans.

A  similar problem occurs with `faas.name` and `cloud.resource_id`
([Function as a Service Resource semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/resource/faas/))
on Azure Functions. While both are defined as Resource attributes, an Azure
function app hosts multiple co-deployed functions with different names and IDs.
In PR [open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification#2502](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2502),
this was solved by allowing to set these Resource attributes on the FaaS
root span instead. This has the drawback that the context of which function a span
is executed in is lost in any child spans that may occur within the function (app).

## Explanation

The Context-scoped attributes allows you to attach attributes to all telemetry
signals emitted within a Context. Context-scoped attributes are standard
attributes, which means you can use strings, integers, floating point numbers,

> booleans or arrays thereof, just like for any telemetry item.

Author: Updated.

When  Context-scoped attributes are enabled, they MUST be added to telemetry items
that were **emitted** while the Context containing the Context-scoped attributes
was active, or to telemetry items that had this Context explicitly set as parent.

These attributes will then be automatically available to **any** component down the pipeline, i.e.
to samplers and processors. Like other telemetry APIs, Context-scoped attributes are
write-only for applications. You cannot query the currently set Context-scoped attributes,
as they are only available on the SDK level (to samplers and processors).

Context-scoped attributes should be thought of equivalent to adding the attribute
directly to each single telemetry item it applies to.

Context-scoped attributes MUST NOT be propagated cross-service, i.e. no context propagator
must be implemented for them. This is because they are meant to annotate (a subset of)
the telemetry items related of a single service (see also [the next section](#comp-baggage)).

> Context-scoped attributes MUST be disabled by default, i.e. they will not be added to

Reviewer 8: why? it's a new API, nothing should create them today, nothing will be broken - users explicitly opt into them by using the API.

Reviewer 8: it's a good question if instrumentations should be allowed to do it - https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4931#discussion_r3012876115

any telemetry item by default, even if they are set and propagated.
They MUST be offered as an opt-in in order to reduce the possibility of unexpected
behavior for existing users. A new boolean configuration option will be added, so
they can be enabled (or disabled) for all signals. Following the existing
configuration format, this is how it would look like:

```yaml
disabled: false

> context_scoped_attributes: true

Reviewer 8: I believe a lot of context-scoped attributes would have high(ish) cardinality and I think we need different defaults for signals (on-by-default for spans and logs), off for metrics.

If we want to default to off on all signals consistently, then we need to start with per-signal configuration anyway.

Author: Agreed. Updated the OTEP to reflect this.

have these commonalities:

* Both have "scope" in the name.
* Both apply a set of telemetry attributes to a set of telemetry items
  (those in their "scope").

While Instrumentation Scope attributes apply to all items emitted by the same
Tracer, Meter or LogEmitter (i.e., typically the same telemetry-implementing unit
of code), the scope of Context-scoped attributes is determined at runtime by the
Context, independently of the used Tracer, Meter or LogEmitter.

Moreover, Tracer, Meter and LogEmitter instances typically have the same
life span as the application itself, whereas Context-scoped attributes
lifespan is tied to the Context itself. For example, a Context solely created
for an incoming request will stop existing once such request is done.

In practice, Instrumentation Scope and Context-scoped attributes will
[often be completely orthogonal](#scope-and-context):
When the Context is flows in-process through a single
service, there will often be exactly one span per Tracer (e.g. one span from
the HTTP server instrumentation as the request arrives, and another one from
a HTTP client instrumentation, as a downstream service is called).

## Internal details

> This section explains the API-level, SDK-level and exporter-level changes that

Reviewer 8: are there any exporter-level changes in the active proposal?

Author: Oops, not anymore. Removing it.

are expected to implement this.

### API changes

The API would be extended with a variation of the following:

> * `Context SetContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes)`

Author: Agreed on us not being too prescriptive. Will relax the text on this. Also, regarding the usage of `Context.addAttributes()`, that makes me think that the passed attributes will be _merged_ to existing ones in the Context.

`SetContextScopedAttributes` takes a set of attributes and a Context and returns
a new Context that has the given context attributes set. Observe the following notes:

* If an associated telemetry item (e.g. Span or LogRecordItem) already has an attribute with
  a name that is also in the Context-scoped attributes, the telemetry item attribute
  MUST take precedence.

As for all APIs, care should be taken to expose it in a way that API-users do
not bind themselves to a particular SDK implementation. One possible way to expose this
would be through a global OpenTelemetry instance (e.g.
`GlobalOpenTelemetry.GetInstance().GetContextAttributeWriter()` or
`GlobalOpenTelemetry.GetInstance().SetContextScopedAttributes()`.
As this is a write-only API, the API-only implementation should be a no-op.

### SDK changes

The SDK-implementation could look like this:

> ```C#

Author: Removed.

> ```C#

Author: (We also don't need this as we should stay general and less prescriptive on what SIGs decide)

Context AddContextScopedAttributes(Context context, Attributes attributes) {
    return context.WithValue(
        _CTX_KEY_SCOPED_ATTRS,
        MergeAttributes(context.GetValue(_CTX_KEY_SCOPED_ATTRS), attributes));
}
```

> Upon telemetry items creation (e.g. Span, LogRecordItem), the SDK MUST add

Author: This was actually not clear - the intention is that upon span/logrecord/metric creation, the SDK:

1) gets the Context-scoped attributes (either active Context or explicit parent Context) and
2) Adds them to the span/logrecord/metric.

> Upon telemetry items creation (e.g. Span, LogRecordItem), the SDK MUST add

Author: Let me know if the new text clarifies this.

the context-scoped attributes of the logically associated Context,
skipping attributes with keys already present in the telemetry item.
This MUST be done before any extension point is invoked, e.g. Sampler or Processor.

This will be an implementation-level change without any changes in the API-surface
of the SDK (i.e. it is not necessary to make Context-scoped attributes distinguishable
from “direct” telemetry attributes).

## Trade-offs and mitigations

> This OTEP suggests making Context-scoped attributes **indistinguishable** from

Author: Removed this.

telemetry items, or with the Instrumentation Scope, instead of their own attributes.
This would mean that every distinct set of Context-scoped attributes gets sent
within a distinct ResourceSpans/ScopeSpans message, duplicating the resource and
instrumentation scope attributes that many times (a cross-product, if you will).
This approach seems semantically interesting, but could lead to larger export
messages, especially if we assume that very often there will only be one span of
the same instrumentation-scope per Context-scope (e.g., you typically will only
have one single Span produced by the HTTP server instrumentation as the trace
crosses a single service).

### Alternative: Associating Context-scoped attributes with the span on end and setting attributes on parent Contexts

This alternative seems to be a valid option which is just as easy to implement
as the approach in the main Context, but it feels a bit less natural.

For spec-conforming implementations of tracing (which excludes .NET in this case),
ending/starting a span is independent from setting it as active in a Context.
This allows ending a span in a different context from the one it was started in.

> One use case this could enable is pushing attributes up to a parent span.

Author: Agreed. Totally leaving this alternative out.

with the context-scoped attribute. It needs specifically to be built-in in order to have access
to the internal key for getting the context-scoped attributes from `Context`. There are some issues
with this approach though:

* Samplers have their `ShouldSample` operation invoked _before_ a processor
  can get their `OnStart` call. Thus we would need to add a `BeforeShouldSample` or `BeforeStart`
  operations to the processor interface, which seems redundant.
* Processors would need to be configured per-signal, which is both redundant but could also
  offer more granularity.

## Open questions

* Should `Baggage` be included as part of this new process? The need to attach
  `Baggage` values to individual telemetry items has been a request from users
  in the past. This is even considered as part of one of the alternatives that
  were considered.

* Configuration could be defined, at least initially, as a single boolean value, similar
  to how the entire SDK is enabled or disabled via the `disabled` configuration option.
  However, this OTEP leaves the topic open in case further options are needed, e.g.
  only enable Context-scoped attributes for some signals.

> 

Author: I think we shouldn't allow instrumentation to set attributes in Context, at least initially. We could come up with guidelines on when do that and when it's a bad idea - this will also affect or depend on the defaults we decide per-signal.

I have massaged the OTEP to say instrumentation SHOULD NOT use this feature by default, while adding this as an open question.

> 

Reviewer 4: I can understand us taking our time before having it by default, but I *do* think instrumentation should be able to do it - but always flag guarded.

@carlosalberto Would it make sense to delegate that open question to some of our folks running new instrumentatoin libraries in Semconv?  E.g. @lmolkova, @trask could represent HTTP or GenAI and figure out how they might interact with this feature.  Similarly for other SIGs.
